# HKN Server

**tl;dr**

```
npm run start
```

## Commands

- `npm run start`: runs lint, clean, build, then serves on localhost with hot reloading (updates server everytime you change code.)
- `npm run build`: runs ts -> js transpiler (tsc)
- `npm run clean`: rm -rf dist/\* but has cross-env support
- `npm run typeorm`: runs typeorm cli (npx typeorm doesn't work)
- `npm run typeorm:sync`: sync your entities with the postgres db

## Directory Structure + Terms

All typescript code should be located inside of src for the tsc compiler to pick up the changes. For development hot reloading, we use tsc-watch to do incremental compilation and server rebooting. For further instructions on adding any of the following, _please_ read the corresponding guide in guides/

### index.ts

Entry point of server that delegates to loaders (in Loaders folder). Loader pattern is still WIP - see https://softwareontheroad.com/ideal-nodejs-project-structure/ for more details.

### config.ts

All environment variables should be loaded here and encapsulated within the global singleton Config object so we don't leak process.envs everywhere.

### Entities

We use [TypeORM](https://github.com/typeorm/typeorm) to manage our tables in our Postgres database. The term _entities_ is directly borrowed from TypeORM's definition of an entity. Each file within the Entities folder should directly correspond to a Postgres table or view. Enums used within a table should be declared in the same file of the table that it is used in.

Note that we use the Data Mapper pattern over the Active Record pattern because it offers better decoupling between the data model and our data manipulation logic. As a result, entities should merely be **a Typescript type without any attached methods**. This allows for usage similar to a C style struct. Entities are currently implemented as classes merely to conform to TypeORM's decorators, as it is impossible to decorate interface/type properties.

Under this pattern, business logic is encapsulated within Services that delegate to Repositories which manage data persistence (a.k.a. talking to Postgres).

### Controllers

A controller is a class containing business logic corresponding to a subset of API routes. We use Express as our base framework of choice, but use [routing-controllers](https://github.com/typestack/routing-controllers) for controller development. **routing-controllers** allow developers to rapidly develop business logic without having to worry about directly manipulating request/response objects.

Each method within a controller corresponds to an API endpoint. Note that the response type of each controller method must be manually annotated with @ResponseSchema for swagger docs generation.

Returning _undefined_ from a controller method will automatically generate a 404 error.

### Payloads

A payload is a class corresponding to either a request or a response object corresponding to the bodies of POST/PUT/PATCH requests, or the responses of a general HTTP request. They exist for multiple reasons:

- Reuse between frontend and backend
- Auto docs generation
- Auto request/response validation by [class-validator](https://github.com/typestack/class-validator)

Again, these things should be interfaces but are implemented as classes to support decorators.

### Services

A service encapsulates business logic either pertaining to a db entity, or a group of actions (a.k.a sending emails through sendgrid or fetching+saving resumes).

### Migrations

A db migration encapsulates a change to the database schema. We'll set this up when we need to, but it allows us to do schema rollbacks and modifications.

### Tests

Ignore for now - don't think mocking is worth the effort. Future ideas including standing up a Docker container with a Postgres db running on localhost and pointing tests at that instead.

## Docs Generation

API documentation is autogenerated and served at the /docs endpoint.
